A string is a sequential collection of Unicode characters that is used to represent text.
A String object is a sequential collection of System.Char objects that represent a string. 
The value of the String object is the content of the sequential collection, 
and that value is immutable (that is, it is read-only). 
For more information about the immutability of strings, 
see the Immutability and the StringBuilder class section later in this topic.
The maximum size of a String object in memory is 2 GB, or about 1 billion characters.
 
The string type represents a sequence of zero or more Unicode characters. 
string is an alias for String in the .NET Framework.
Although string is a reference type, the equality operators (== and !=) are defined 
to compare the values of string objects, not references.
This makes testing for string equality more intuitive.
 
Compare(str1, str2) - Compares two specified String objects and returns an integer that indicates their relative position in the sort order.
IndexOf(str) - Reports the zero-based index of the first occurrence of a specified Unicode character or string within this instance. The method returns -1 if the character or string is not found in this instance. 
LastIndexOf(str) -  Reports the zero-based index position of the last occurrence of a specified Unicode character or string within this instance. The method returns -1 if the character or string is not found in this instance.
Substring(startIndex, length) - Retrieves a substring from this instance. 
Replace(oldStr, newStr) - Returns a new string in which all occurrences of a specified Unicode character or String in the current string are replaced with another specified Unicode character or String.
Remove(startIndex, length) - Returns a new string in which a specified number of characters in the current instance beginning at a specified position have been deleted.
ToLower() - Returns a copy of this string converted to lowercase.
ToUpper() -  Returns a copy of this string converted to uppercase.
Trim() - Returns a new string in which all leading and trailing occurrences of a set of specified characters from the current String object are removed.